Planning for the new
Patterson Visitors’ Center began in 2018.
A project development group was formed
with the goal of starting construction,
but unforeseen challenges
were about to occur.
In March of 2020,
an outbreak of COVID-19
in the New York area
caused Bethel to go into a full lockdown.
How did the design group
see Jehovah’s blessing on the project
during this unprecedented time?
Well, when Bethel locked down
and suspended in-person meetings,
so did the town of Patterson.
This created a serious challenge
for us to obtain the necessary approvals
and to keep the project moving forward.
So with the threat of falling months behind,
we had to rely on Jehovah
and alter our approach.
So a local elder was given permission
to attend the town planning board meetings
in person once they opened up.
He allowed us, as a design team,
to make a presentation
effectively but remotely.
We saw Jehovah’s hand
and his blessing on this entire arrangement.
So through months of meetings,
we were able to get the approvals needed
and then get a building permit
to begin construction
—all of this taking place
during the lockdown!
Following all the local guidelines,
the branch found a way
to bring skilled brothers and sisters
into the “Bethel bubble” safely
so they could work on the project.
Jehovah caused many volunteers
to “offer themselves willingly” to help.
Here we are,
building the Patterson Visitors’ Center
during a most unique time in history,
in the midst of a global pandemic.
The brotherhood
has demonstrated ‘a heart for the work’
through contributions
and brothers and sisters
offering their skills
—some of which are quite unique.
It’s so encouraging to see
how Jehovah has come to our aid
with supply issues
and how Bethel departments have cooperated
and provided skilled people to help us.
It’s been so encouraging.
All involved have seen Jehovah’s hand
guiding the way
through these challenging circumstances.
But some may wonder,
‘At a time when guests
are not allowed on Bethel property,
why is this visitors’ center
so important to Jehovah?’
The physical buildings
at Bethel are attractive,
but what’s more valuable to Jehovah
is what happens inside.
It’s the spiritual gift that he has in store
for all who come to visit
that is so important.
The Patterson Visitors’ Center is designed
to be an immersive
theocratic experience for everyone.
The Patterson Visitors’ Center
will feature three museums
and a coin display.
Our feature museum
will be a first-century Bible village.
The objective is to educate visitors
about what life was like in the first century
and thereby bring Bible accounts to life.
You will get a sense of what things were like
when Jesus walked the earth.
Since the Israelites lived off the land,
the experience begins
with an overview of the annual crop cycles
that formed the core
of so much of their daily activities.
Key agricultural tasks, such as threshing,
winnowing, and grinding grain,
will be illustrated
with interactive displays.
We know you will find the exhibit components,
like the functioning
olive press and wine press,
very interesting and informative.
The next stop will be
a typical first-century market.
Here you will see some of the food and goods
that would have been available
depending on the season of the year.
We next invite you
into the residence and workshop spaces
of a typical first-century Israelite family.
The manger,
carpentry shop,
weaving and fabric dying displays
will illustrate
a number of Israelite activities.
The residence courtyard area
will show other regular home tasks
like grain grinding and basket making.
We next invite you
into a typical Israelite home
and out onto a rooftop
overlooking the rest of the village.
Before you leave the residences,
you will also see an upper room
that would have been
in some of the Israelite homes.
The next area
of the first-century Bible village
that you can explore is the synagogue,
which was the center of worship and study
in the Jewish community.
Next, a functioning pottery wheel and kiln
will illustrate how pottery was made.
The last stop will take you to a lakeside
where you will be able
to board a first-century fishing boat
similar to the one
that Jesus and his disciples used.
Here you can learn what was involved
in commercial fishing.
This and so much more
is waiting for you
at the new Patterson Visitors’ Center.
We can’t wait for you to come and see
the beautiful spiritual gift
that is waiting for you!
The new visitors’ center and museum
are on course to be completed
in the fall of 2023.
When will guests be able to come back
to Bethel and tour the new facility?
We are going to have to wait and see.
But one thing is for sure:
When the doors finally do open,
anyone who makes the effort to come
will receive a spiritual gift from Jehovah.
The touring experience
will prove to be a spiritual encouragement
to the worldwide brotherhood
and promote pure worship
to Jehovah’s praise and honor
in a very unique way.
It will certainly be a must-see.
Well, we’ve seen
the blessings on this project
and, really, all the people
working hard on it.
The facility is going to benefit
thousands of future visitors.
It’s because all of us,
either now or in the new world,
need to be taught
about the life and ministry of Jesus.
For this reason, we’re convinced
of Jehovah’s blessing on the project
and his desire to have this facility built.
It’s Jehovah’s desire
that people come to his house
and be refreshed and educated.
It is our prayer
that this new and thrilling visitors’ center
will accomplish that.
Guests will come, they will be upbuilt,
and they will draw closer to Jehovah God.